---
layout: ../../layouts/MarkdownPostLayout.astro
title: 'Refactoring, performance and some fun with styling'
pubDate: 2023-07-16
description: 'In this post, I share my journey of refactoring an Astro JS app, improving performance, updating styling, and optimizing for SEO, resulting in a faster and more user-friendly experience.'
author: 'Jakub Jachowski'
image:
  url: 'https://docs.astro.build/assets/full-logo-light.png'
  alt: 'The full Astro logo.'
tags: ['astro', 'seo', 'blogging', 'refactoring', 'optimization']
---

# Refactoring

In the last few days, I focused more on polishing the 'current product' rather than adding new features to my website. There were many places with some old styles written directly in the styles tag that needed to be replaced with _Tailwind_. Besides that, I found many places where the app looked - let's say - not great. So I had some fun with rewriting, restyling, and refactoring in general.

## TypeScript issues

In the meantime, I realized that _TypeScript_ has been acting kind of weird for a while, so I began looking for some better configuration than mine. Unfortunately, I didn't succeed with that; adding more options seemed to create even more issues with _VSCode_ autocomplete and type error highlighting. I ended up using a simple configuration that you can check out in my repo - `tsconfig.json`. That, and reinstalling and reconfiguring the Astro plugin for VSCode, worked like a charm.

## Sitemap

Appears that _Astro_ provides sitemap integration. It's a package that, when configured correctly, generates `sitemap-index.xml` and `sitemap-0.xml`, necessary for better _SEO_. Configuration looked straightforward, so I decided to go for it. All there was to do was add a link tag to the page head, create a `robots.txt` file with my page address, and add my page address to `astro.config.mjs` - super easy.

As I finish this round of refactoring and polishing, I'm happy with the progress I've made. The website now has improved code organization, better styling with Tailwind, and a seamlessly integrated sitemap for SEO benefits.

Thanks for reading. Until next time, happy coding 👨🏻‍💻!
